README.md, before:

Intro
=====
Lorem ipsum

Goals
-----
Lorem ipsum

Schedule
--------

| Session | Title | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Lecture 1 | Setup | Installation, Jupyter notebooks |
| Lecture 2 | Basic Python | Syntax, data structures, control flow, etc |
| Exercise 1 | My First Notebook | ... |
| Lecture 3 | Pandas I | Reading data, dataframe basics |


Getting started
===============
In order to make sure everyone is operating off of the same page, we're going
to be using [Docker](https://www.docker.com/what-docker) and 
[Anaconda](https://www.continuum.io/anaconda-overview) to setup consistent
Python development environments.

Please follow the installation instructions for Docker and Anaconda below to
make sure you have a working Python environment prior to the beginning of the 
course.

Clone this repo
---------------
First, you're going to want to get a copy of this repository onto your machine.
Simply fire up `git` and clone it:

1. Open up a shell (e.g. `cmd.exe` or `terminal.app`).

2. Navigate to where you'd like to save this. We recommend `${HOME}/repos/` 
    (e.g. `C:/Users/${USER}/repos/` on Windows, `/Users/${USER}/repos/` on 
    Mac, or `/homes/${USER}/repos/` on Unix).

3. Clone this repo:
 
  ```
  git clone ssh://git@stash.ihme.washington.edu:7999/scic/ihme-python-course.git
  ```

Install Docker
--------------
Docker enables you to create "containers" which provide consistent environments
in which to run your code. This way, you can run the software you write on 
different machines (e.g. your laptop vs the computing cluster) without 
having to spend too much time worrying about adapting it.

We're going to just be using some very basic features of Docker, so if you'd
like to learn more refer to 
[this page](https://docs.docker.com/engine/understanding-docker/).

### Windows
Detailed installation instructions are available
[here](https://docs.docker.com/docker-for-windows/). For our purposes, you can
simply:

1. [Download](https://download.docker.com/win/stable/InstallDocker.msi) the
    installer.

2. Double click on the installer and follow the prompts (keeping all options 
    as defaults is fine).

3. Open a shell (e.g. `cmd.exe`) and trying running the test example:
 
    ```
    docker run hello-world
    ```

### Mac OSX
Detailed installation instructions are available
[here](https://docs.docker.com/docker-for-mac/). For our purposes, you can
simply:

1. [Download](https://download.docker.com/mac/stable/Docker.dmg) the installer.

2. Double click on the installer and drag `Docker.app` into your Applications
    folder.

3. Double click on `Docker.app` to start Docker.

4. Open a shell (e.g. `terminal.app`) and trying running the test example:
 
    ```
    docker run hello-world
    ```

### Unix/Linux
¯\_(ツ)_/¯



Install Anaconda
----------------
Anaconda is a software package for Python (and R and sometimes C...) that
handles the installation of common Python packages for you, making it easier
to create and manage portable environments. We'll be using it inside of Docker
to ensure that everyone is running under the same environment. See 
[this page](https://www.continuum.io/blog/developer-blog/anaconda-and-docker-better-together-reproducible-data-science) for more on how
Docker and Anaconda fit together.

1. Get the latest Anaconda for Python 3 image:

    ```
    docker pull continuumio/anaconda3
    ```

2. Test that your installation worked:

    ```
    docker run continuumio/anaconda3 /opt/conda/bin/conda info
    ```

Running Jupyter Notebooks
=========================
Lorem ipsum

1. Fire up a notebook:

    ```
    docker run -i -t -p 8888:8888 -v ~/repos/ihme-python-course/:/home/ihme-python-course/ continuumio/anaconda3 /opt/conda/bin/jupyter notebook --ip='*' --no-browser --notebook-dir=/home/ihme-python-course/
    ```

Commit message:

description of Jupyter notebook arguments

README.md, after:

Intro
=====
Lorem ipsum

Goals
-----
Lorem ipsum

Schedule
--------

| Session | Title | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Lecture 1 | Setup | Installation, Jupyter notebooks |
| Lecture 2 | Basic Python | Syntax, data structures, control flow, etc |
| Exercise 1 | My First Notebook | ... |
| Lecture 3 | Pandas I | Reading data, dataframe basics |


Getting started
===============
In order to make sure everyone is operating off of the same page, we're going
to be using [Docker](https://www.docker.com/what-docker) and 
[Anaconda](https://www.continuum.io/anaconda-overview) to setup consistent
Python development environments.

Please follow the installation instructions for Docker and Anaconda below to
make sure you have a working Python environment prior to the beginning of the 
course.

Clone this repo
---------------
First, you're going to want to get a copy of this repository onto your machine.
Simply fire up `git` and clone it:

1. Open up a shell (e.g. `cmd.exe` or `terminal.app`).

2. Navigate to where you'd like to save this. We recommend `${HOME}/repos/` 
    (e.g. `C:/Users/${USER}/repos/` on Windows, `/Users/${USER}/repos/` on 
    Mac, or `/homes/${USER}/repos/` on Unix).

3. Clone this repo:
 
  ```
  git clone ssh://git@stash.ihme.washington.edu:7999/scic/ihme-python-course.git
  ```

Install Docker
--------------
Docker enables you to create "containers" which provide consistent environments
in which to run your code. This way, you can run the software you write on 
different machines (e.g. your laptop vs the computing cluster) without 
having to spend too much time worrying about adapting it.

We're going to just be using some very basic features of Docker, so if you'd
like to learn more refer to 
[this page](https://docs.docker.com/engine/understanding-docker/).

### Windows
Detailed installation instructions are available
[here](https://docs.docker.com/docker-for-windows/). For our purposes, you can
simply:

1. [Download](https://download.docker.com/win/stable/InstallDocker.msi) the
    installer.

2. Double click on the installer and follow the prompts (keeping all options 
    as defaults is fine).

3. Open a shell (e.g. `cmd.exe`) and trying running the test example:
 
    ```
    docker run hello-world
    ```

### Mac OSX
Detailed installation instructions are available
[here](https://docs.docker.com/docker-for-mac/). For our purposes, you can
simply:

1. [Download](https://download.docker.com/mac/stable/Docker.dmg) the installer.

2. Double click on the installer and drag `Docker.app` into your Applications
    folder.

3. Double click on `Docker.app` to start Docker.

4. Open a shell (e.g. `terminal.app`) and trying running the test example:
 
    ```
    docker run hello-world
    ```

### Unix/Linux
¯\\_(ツ)_/¯



Install Anaconda
----------------
Anaconda is a software package for Python (and R and sometimes C...) that
handles the installation of common Python packages for you, making it easier
to create and manage portable environments. We'll be using it inside of Docker
to ensure that everyone is running under the same environment. See 
[this page](https://www.continuum.io/blog/developer-blog/anaconda-and-docker-better-together-reproducible-data-science) for more on how
Docker and Anaconda fit together.

1. Get the latest Anaconda for Python 3 image:

    ```
    docker pull continuumio/anaconda3
    ```

2. Test that your installation worked:

    ```
    docker run continuumio/anaconda3 /opt/conda/bin/conda info
    ```

Running Jupyter Notebooks
=========================
Lorem ipsum

1. You can fire up a notebook using the following command:

    ```
    docker run -it -p 8888:8888 -v ~/repos/ihme-python-course/:/home/ihme-python-course/ continuumio/anaconda3 /opt/conda/bin/jupyter notebook --ip='*' --no-browser --notebook-dir=/home/ihme-python-course/
    ```

    What do all of these arguments mean?
    
    | Argument | Value | Description |
    | --- | --- | --- |
    | `-it` | | Run the Docker container interactively |
    | `-p` | `8888:8888` | Map the 8888 port of the Docker container to the local port so that you can connect to it via your web browser |
    | `-v` | `~/repos/ihme-python-course/:/home/ihme-python-course/` | Maps `<host directory>:<container directory>` so that the repo you've downloaded is visible to the container |
    | `continuumio/anaconda3` | | The name of the Docker container to be run |
    | `/opt/conda/bin/jupyter` | | The program to execute inside of the container (Jupyter) |
    | `notebook` | | This tells Jupyter to start a Notebook server |
    | `--ip` | `'*'` | Configures Jupyter to respond to any user that can connect to the container |
    | `--no-browser` | | Prevents Jupyter from trying to automatically launch a web browser, since the Docker container does not have one |
    | `--notebook-dir` | `/home/ihme-python-course/` | Sets the root directory for the Jupyter server to the same one we mapped under `-v` |

    If you've followed all of the directions above exactly, you shouldn't need 
    to edit any of these right now. If you've saved into a non-standard
    location, you may need to change the first part of your `-v` argument.

2. Navigate to [http://localhost:8888](http://localhost:8888) in your web 
    browser. You should see a listing of the files from this repo.
